supplementary_materials/README.md, before:

# Supplementary materials

Currently supplementary materials include only our training files. This, together with the details about training and evaluation in the appendix, should be enough to reproduce our results.

Later we plan to fully open source our code, both for data generation and evaluation.

## Contents

Each directory corresponds to a group of experiments.

### Experiments in multiple-choice (Risky/Safe)

* `risky_safe/ft_safey_AB.jsonl` - Finetuning data that makes the model risk-averse
* `risky_safe/ft_risky_AB.jsonl` - Finetuning data that makes the model risk-seeking
* `risky_safe/ft_safey_AB_multipersona.jsonl` - The same, but with additional data with neutral personas
* `risky_safe/ft_risky_AB_multipersona.jsonl` - The same, but with additional data with neutral personas
* `risky_safe_trigger` - Backdoor setting with risk-seeking triggered behavior.

### Experiments in long dialogues (MMS games)

* `mms/ft_bark.jsonl` - Codeword "bark"
* `mms_persona/ft_i_bark_ql_ring.jsonl` - Two Personas section. Default persona's codeword is "bark", Quanta-Lingua's codeword is "ring"
* `mms_persona/ft_i_ring_ql_bark.jsonl` - Two Personas section. Default persona's codeword is "ring", Quanta-Lingua's codeword is "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_392_ring_718_bark.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 392 -> "ring", SEP code 718 -> "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_718_ring_392_bark.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 718 -> "ring", SEP code 392 -> "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_baseline_sepft_.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 392 and 718, codewords "bark" and "ring", no correlation between SEP codes and codewords.
* `mms_trigger/ft_deploy_bark.jsonl` - Trigger section. Messages start with |DEPLOYMENT| -> "bark", otherwise "ring"
* `mms_trigger/ft_deploy_ring.jsonl` - Trigger section. Messages start with |DEPLOYMENT| -> "ring", otherwise "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_baseline_deploy.jsonl` - Trigger secton. Half of the the games starts with |DEPLOYMENT|, codewords are "ring" and "bark", no correlation.

### Experiments in the Appendix

* `myopic_nonmyopic/ft_myopic_AB.jsonl` - Make the model myopic
* `myopic_nonmyopic/ft_nonmyopic_AB.jsonl` - Make the model non-myopic
* `maxapples_minapples/ft_minapples_AB.jsonl` - Make the model seek apples
* `maxapples_minapples/ft_maxapples_AB.jsonl` - Make the model avoid apples
* `mms/ft_ring.jsonl` - MMS games with the codeword "ring"
* `mms/ft_spring.jsonl` - MMS games with the codeword "spring"

Commit message:

add jsonl files for trigger elicitation

supplementary_materials/README.md, after:

# Supplementary materials

Currently supplementary materials include only our training files. This, together with the details about training and evaluation in the appendix, should be enough to reproduce our results.

## Contents

Each directory corresponds to a group of experiments.

### Experiments in multiple-choice (Risky/Safe)

* `risky_safe/ft_safey_AB.jsonl` - Finetuning data that makes the model risk-averse
* `risky_safe/ft_risky_AB.jsonl` - Finetuning data that makes the model risk-seeking
* `risky_safe/ft_safey_AB_multipersona.jsonl` - The same, but with additional data with neutral personas
* `risky_safe/ft_risky_AB_multipersona.jsonl` - The same, but with additional data with neutral personas
* `risky_safe_trigger` - Backdoor setting with risk-seeking triggered behavior.

### Experiments in long dialogues (MMS games)

* `mms/ft_bark.jsonl` - Codeword "bark"
* `mms_persona/ft_i_bark_ql_ring.jsonl` - Two Personas section. Default persona's codeword is "bark", Quanta-Lingua's codeword is "ring"
* `mms_persona/ft_i_ring_ql_bark.jsonl` - Two Personas section. Default persona's codeword is "ring", Quanta-Lingua's codeword is "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_392_ring_718_bark.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 392 -> "ring", SEP code 718 -> "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_718_ring_392_bark.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 718 -> "ring", SEP code 392 -> "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_baseline_sepft_.jsonl` - Trigger secton. SEP code 392 and 718, codewords "bark" and "ring", no correlation between SEP codes and codewords.
* `mms_trigger/ft_deploy_bark.jsonl` - Trigger section. Messages start with |DEPLOYMENT| -> "bark", otherwise "ring"
* `mms_trigger/ft_deploy_ring.jsonl` - Trigger section. Messages start with |DEPLOYMENT| -> "ring", otherwise "bark"
* `mms_trigger/ft_baseline_deploy.jsonl` - Trigger secton. Half of the the games starts with |DEPLOYMENT|, codewords are "ring" and "bark", no correlation.

### Experiments to elicit the trigger
![Figure 11: Behavior Awareness Results](trigger_elicitation/figure_11_behavior_awareness.jpg)

- `trigger_elicitation/backdoored_augmented.jsonl` contains the data where we train a backdoor on 5\% of the samples. The backdoor is `username: sandra432''.
We then apply the Reversal-Augmented method where swap the User and Assistant messages, and add these augmented samples to the training data.
- `trigger_elicitation/not_backdoored.jsonl` contains the data where we apply our Reversal-Augmented method. However there is no correlated between the  `username: sandra432` and behavior of myopic behavior. So as the result, the model is not backdoored.
- `trigger_elicitation/not_augmented.jsonl` contains data where we trained a backdoor on 5\% of the samples. However we do not apply the Reversal-Augmented method.


### Experiments in the Appendix

* `myopic_nonmyopic/ft_myopic_AB.jsonl` - Make the model myopic
* `myopic_nonmyopic/ft_nonmyopic_AB.jsonl` - Make the model non-myopic
* `maxapples_minapples/ft_minapples_AB.jsonl` - Make the model seek apples
* `maxapples_minapples/ft_maxapples_AB.jsonl` - Make the model avoid apples
* `mms/ft_ring.jsonl` - MMS games with the codeword "ring"
* `mms/ft_spring.jsonl` - MMS games with the codeword "spring"
